All right, this one's going to be a two step
because we are working with the user
and we're gonna have the very basic access.
Then we'll control the UI.
But this one gets a little tricky because
somebody should be able to create a user
that's signing up,
but they should not be able to update their role
to be admin.(chuckles)
Otherwise, then you can just update yourself to be an admin
and you could go, go wild on it.
So let's get into it.
First,
we'll open up our access dot TS,
and we'll make a new value.
Let's take the
can order.
And let's just copy that.
Go to the bottom here.
And we'll make that one called
can manage users.
And here, if they're not signed in, you can't.
Do they have permission to manage the users?
Let's take a look at what that field is called.
Can manage users.
There we go.
So if they have can manage users then true.
Otherwise they may only update themselves so,
we'll put that here.
Otherwise they may only update themselves.
So where the user session ID is equal to the currently
logged in user.
Okay.
Then we'll go in to our user and we'll add our access here.
So, access
but create
that will always be true.
Everyone can create a user cause that's signing up.
Read, should you be able to read a user,
or you should be able to read yourself,
or everybody if you have the associated permission.
So that's going to be
rules dot can manage users,
and lock to import rules.
Update.
You should be able to update anybody or yourself
if you have permissions,
and then delete is going to only be...
You should not be able to delete yourself.
But if you do have the permission, you should be able to.
So we'll say permissions dot can manage users.
So this is, this is very clear what the difference is
between permissions and rules is that permissions,
you must have the checkbox under your role.
Whereas rules is either the check box or yourself.
And then we'll put a little comment there.
Only people with the permission,
can delete themselves.
You can't delete
yourself.
Okay? So there's that.
The next thing is the UI
because we need to be able to hide the UI
from the actual user.
So say UI
here, hide create.
It's going to be args,
bang args.
Oh no.
Permissions dot can
manage.
So basically this will hide the backend UI from
regular users.
And then we'll hide delete
from them as well.
And that should be good.
Okay, so that's the first step.
Let's save it, reboot our server here.
And go to users, as the logged in user.
Then we'll go to users as the admin.
So users,
and users, there we go.
So now it says,
there is no users found.
That should at least show yourself.
Let's take a look at this again.
Read rules dot can manage users.
Okay.
Oh!
(laughs hysterically)
That makes sense.
We're not...
we don't have an associated user it's just an ID.
So where the ID is equal to the currently logged in user.
So we'll start that again.
While that's loading, we can see that
this one did work though
because the permission does have it.
Here we go.
There's the one user, but you can see they're all here.
Now we'll go a little bit further and go into the user
and into the role
and we'll say,
access.
So we want to limit the access of creating a new role
that's associated,
and that is going to be permissions dot can manage users.
So only if you have the checkbox permission
can you create it or update it?
And that should lock it down
for us.
Give that a restart and everything is good to go.
So that is locking down the user.
And that is an example of
being able to lock down a specific
field.
Whether it's a relationship or not,
you can always add access control to an individual field
in addition to, or rather than an entire list.